jpg let's go (#82)
creatis-myriad/creatis-myriad.github.io: collections/_posts/2022-10-26-GeneralizationInFederatedLearning.md

$$ F(w) = F_{unpart}(w) := \mathbb{E}_{c\sim P}\left[\rho_c*\mathbb{E}_{\xi\sim D_c}[f(w,\xi)]\right] $$

The formulation is more justified in a cross-device setting (with a large amount of clients, e.g. local distributions).

# The empirical risks and generalization gaps
## Definition
* *Let $$\hat{C}$$ be the participating clients, drawn from the meta-distribution $$P$$,*
* *For each $$c\in\hat{C}$$, let $$\hat{\Xi}_c$$ be the participating training client data, drawn from the local distribution $$D_c$$.*

**They further define the *empirical risk* on the participating training client data with**

$$ F_{part\_train}(w) := \frac{1}{|\hat{C}|}\underset{c\in \hat{C}}{\sum}[\rho_c*(\frac{1}{|\hat{\Xi}_c|}\underset{\xi\in\hat{\Xi}_c}{\sum} f(w,\xi))]$$

**And the *semi-empirical risk* on the participating validation client data with**

$$ F_{part\_val}(w) := \frac{1}{|\hat{C}|}\underset{c\in\hat{C}}{\sum}[\rho_c*(\mathbb{E}_{\xi\sim D_c}f(w,\xi))]$$

They finally define two levels of generalization gap:
* **The out-of-sample gap: $$ F_{part\_val}(w) - F_{part\_train}(w)$$**
* **The partipation gap: $$ F_{unpart}(w) - F_{part\_val}(w)$$**

## Highlighted properties

> * *Participation gap is an intrinsic property of FL due to heterogeneity*: the gap will not exist if data is homogeneous,
> * *Participation gap can quantify client diversity* (comparable between tasks),
> * *Participation gap can measure overfitting on the population distribution*,
> * *Participation gap can quantify model robustness to unseen clients*,
> * *Participation gap can quantify the incentive for clients to participate*.

Reviewer: I'd reformat this to avoid repeating _participation gap_ so many times the following way :wink:
```suggestion
The participation gap:
* *is an intrinsic property of FL due to heterogeneity*. The gap will not exist if data is homogeneous,
* *can quantify client diversity* (comparable between tasks),
* *can measure overfitting on the population distribution*,
* *can quantify model robustness to unseen clients*,
* *can quantify the incentive for clients to participate*.
```

> # The three-way validation split

Reviewer: I wonder if its appropriate to have this as top-level header. Maybe you could add something like a _Contribution_ section, of which this header and following headers would be subsections? I think it would help give a little bit more structure to the review.

Author: I added two top-level headers: Theoretical contributions (containing definitions, empirical risks and generalization gaps), and Practical contributions, containing everything else.

separate measurement of out-of-sample and participation gaps.

# Two levels of generalization gap in practice

* With federated learning

![](/collections/images/generalization_federated_learning/generalization_gaps_fl.jpg)

* But even with centralized training

![](/collections/images/generalization_federated_learning/centralized_participation_gap.jpg)

# Label partitioning is not enough to simulate heterogeneity

* To explore federated learning when there are no large federated datasets accessible, one can synthetically partition a public dataset.
* The authors show that simulating heterogeneity of a federated dataset by generating partitions with different label distributions alter the training processes compared to a naturally heterogeneous federated dataset.

![](/collections/images/generalization_federated_learning/learning_progress_natural_label_part.jpg)

# Semantic partitioning

The proposed partitioning protocol is the following for a classification task:
* For each label, extract semantic features with a pretrained neural network. Fit a Gaussian Mixture Model to cluster pretrained embeddings into $$C$$ groups: **intra-client intra-label consistency**.

> * Then, the aim is to compute an optimal multi-partite matching with cost-matrix defined by KL-divergence between the Gaussian clusters. They approximate this optimal by progressively solving the optimal bipartite matching at each time for randomly-chosen label pairs: **intra-client inter-label consistency**.

Reviewer: From a quick search, _multi-partite_ seems to rather be written as one word: _multipartite_. Unless you're using a specific definition of the word that is normally written this way in the literature?
```suggestion
* Then, the aim is to compute an optimal multipartite matching with cost-matrix defined by KL-divergence between the Gaussian clusters. They approximate this optimal by progressively solving the optimal bipartite matching at each time for randomly-chosen label pairs: **intra-client inter-label consistency**.
```

> * Then, the aim is to compute an optimal multi-partite matching with cost-matrix defined by KL-divergence between the Gaussian clusters. They approximate this optimal by progressively solving the optimal bipartite matching at each time for randomly-chosen label pairs: **intra-client inter-label consistency**.

Reviewer: Also, "They approximate this optimal [...]" seems a bit awkward? I think I understand what you're getting at, but using _optimal_ as a noun and not an adjective feels like we're missing a word here. Could you think of a way to rephrase this?

Author: True, I wrote that a little bit too fast. Here is a new version of the last sentence I think should fit:
"They approximate an optimal solution by progressively solving the optimal bipartite matching sequentially for randomly-chosen label pairs: **intra-client inter-label consistency**."

Reviewer: @Volkaa This is much better, but I think _progressively_ and _sequentially_ are redundant, so I'd suggest a final edit to replace _progressively_ with _sequentially_: "They approximate an optimal solution by sequentially solving the optimal bipartite matching for randomly-chosen label pairs: intra-client inter-label consistency."

Author: That's better indeed, I push that and we should be good to go.
